 
 
1 
Real-Time-Phishing- URL Detection with a Deep 
Learning -Based Browser Extension 
 
L.Arulmozhiselvan1, Krishna Sudthan B2, Gowtham V2 
 
1Associate Professor Information Technology, St. Joseph’s Institute of Technology, OMR, Chennai 
2Information Technology St. Joseph’s Institute of Technology, OMR, Chennai 
 
Email id: arulselva04@gmail.com, krishnasudthan@gmail.com, gowtham21vijayakumar@gmail.com 
 
Abstract- Phishing has been one of the most long and 
harmful cyber security attacks, usually taking the 
vulnerability of users exploited by malicious URLs. In 
this paper presents a live window plug -in that will 
identify phishing web sites utilising deep neural networks 
to perform URL feature -based detection instead of the 
more common blacklists. The contributions  made are to 
extract a series of structured features, e.g., age of domain, 
the existence of SSL certificates, and patterns in special 
characters, lexical structure of the URL, pass them to a 
lightweight neural network mode l built on TensorFlow 
and Keras. Its backend is made possible using Flask such 
that there is effective API interaction model business park 
entre le browser extension and the backend. Our model 
can be dynamic, very accurate also less latent than the 
static blacklist method of identifying phishing URLs, 
which will facilitate new phishing URL that will be 
created. Experiments on the standard datasets of 
PhishTank, UCI and Kaggle show that the results are 
good and show a lot of indicators of classification, 
including accuracies, precision, recall and F1 -score. The 
proposed solution to the problem is rather possible to 
implement in the real -time usage in modern web -
browsers. 
 
Keywords –Phishing detection, deep learning, real -time 
URL classification, browser extension, neural network 
(TensorFlow and Keras). 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Phishing is one of the most widespread and 
dangerous forms of cyber hacking and it applies to 
the personal, corporate and strategic facilities. These 
attacks trick users into entering sens itive data -e.g., 
log in data, bank data, personal data - which are then 
used by the attackers. Phishing is still a serious 
threat to the modern internet due to its trick call and 
simple implementations. 
 
However, even though the current advances in 
cybersecurity defence are taking place, most of the  
currently applied approaches to phishing detection 
are reactive, time -consuming, and not flexible 
enough to adjust to the fast development of phishing 
schemes. Conventional methods most of the time 
rely on human examination, therefore, slowing down 
reactions and causing the users to be more 
susceptible. 
 
The newest trend in research has shifted toward the 
utilisation of intelligent and automated detecting 
strategies that are capable of using the machine 
learning or deep learning techniques. As an instance, 
CNN-based models relying solely on the features of 
the URL have achieved good accuracy alongside a 
low false positive -rate [2]. Combination of hybrid 
systems, integration of Decision Trees and XGBoost 
with featu re engineering, performed better too [6]. 
Dynamic detection An ever-growing use of real-time 
browser extensions to check SSL certificate, URL 
pattern analysis can be used to detect phishing [1] 
efforts. Furthermore, deep learning models 
incorporated in sec urity systems have been faster 
and higher accuracy than the traditional classifiers 
[5]. 
 
Using such trends, the current work comes up with a 
real-time phishing detection system which is 
implemented as a 6lightweight browser 
extension.The system does feature extraction orderly 
on URLs and classifies the URLs using a pre trained 
neural network. It is a real-time feedback to its users, 
minimizes the need of manual decision, and brings 
web safety by offering superior automation based 
intelligence and is an act ive and scalable measure to 
phishing attacks. 
 
II. LITERATURE SURVEY  
 
The detection of phishing has currently come to 
establish one of the deepest interests in the modern 
sphere of cyber -security, and the majority of 
investigators use the techniques appro ach of 
2025 Tenth International Conference on Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (ICONSTEM) | 979-8-3315-6187-1/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICONSTEM65670.2025.11374688
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
2 
machine and deep learning to discover in real -time 
phishing websites with extremely high accuracy. 
Among the most prominent works related to the 
topic of the detection of phishing aimed at the 
solutions that are based on the browser, as well as on 
the intelligent algorithms, one can note the following 
works: 
 
Yarram et al. (2025) suggested a browser income 
called Phish-SCP that identifies phishing attacks by 
use of SSL APIs and extraction of contextual 
webpage objects. It used the techniques of XMLTC  
incorporated in the model and was expected to be 
used in enhancing transparency of the decision and 
trust of the users [6]. 
 
Amanullah et al. (2022) constructed the 
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) classifier 
based on the domain -based and lexical featur es of 
the URL. It was trained with a large amount of 
phishing links and it is accurate on detecting 
malicious websites [7]. 
 
A multi -feature architecture, that is, in a 
combination of text -based, structural, behavioural 
features of phishing websites, was p roposed by Yu 
et al. (2022). This multi layered feature fusion 
enhanced the general detection accuracy [8]. 
 
Arivukarasii et al.(2023) used a combination of 
machine learning which evaluated SSL certificates 
and URL characteristics. Such a mix of static and  
dynamic characteristics resulted in better 
classification of phishing websites [9]. 
 
P. G et al. (2025) combined a multilingual CNN -
OCR pipeline, and BERT -based representational 
learning, to detect phishing content in many different 
languages and scripts.  In multi linguistic settings, 
this architecture produced better detection [10]. 
 
Poddar et al. (2022) created a browser extension 
which uses Natural Language Processing (NLP) and 
Random Forest classifier. Their system works by 
scanning phishing websites b ased on the real -time 
linguistic patterns of the web contents [11]. 
 
In (Kumar et al., 2023) a hybrid phishing detection 
framework utilizing physicist handcrafted features as 
well as Decision Tree and XGBoost classifications 
was introduced. This approach i ncreased the 
classification rate because it was considered as an 
optimal way of segregating legitimate and malicious 
URLs [12]. 
 
Sai Vishnu et al. (2023) created a two -model 
detecting strategy, combining Random Forest and 
the rule -based systems. This focus ed on having 
ability to be interpretable as well as rapid detection 
rates [13]. 
 
Then the collaborative browser extension, based on 
machine learning, was proposed by D. et al., and it 
allowed users to report phishing websites. 
 
Wu et al. (2023) developed a  lightweight extension 
to a browser based on a machine learning model 
capable of detecting phishing websites on -the-fly 
and with low inference on the latency. The model 
was effective enough to be applied even in resource -
constrained environments [15]. 
 
In the example of Sawant et al. (2024), it was found 
that the classical machine learning techniques could 
be combined with deep learning e.g. CNNs and NLP 
in order to make the phishing detection more 
accurate, robust, resilient against advanced threats 
[16]. 
 
The provided project is lightweight in the way that it 
uses deep neural network detection via URL and 
constructed using TensorFlow, and Keras. Using 
browser extension and Flask APIs the real -time 
feature of URLs is extracted and due to that, the 
predictions are made. The system is responsive and 
easy to implement live in internet browsing. It is 
strong because it incorporated automation, rapidity 
and accuracy of deep learning in detecting phishing 
threats that would be applied at the point of user 
interaction. 
 
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 
 
Figure 1 : System Architecture 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
3 
There is the offered system of phishing detection 
will be able to work in real -time, which is achieved 
due to browser extension and deep learning -based 
backend. The user starts off by accessin g web sites 
on a conventional web browser. There is a custom 
browser extension that operates in the background 
and takes the current URL the user visits. This light 
extension is the front -end of this system and is used 
to silently gather data and it does not disturb the user 
experience. 
 
After data is taken in the form of a URL it is relayed 
to the backend server where the URL is analysed. 
Feature extraction forms the first part of the backend 
where the URL is analysed to extract some of the 
structural aspe cts like the domain, path, and query 
elements. The module also determines suspicious 
lexical patterns which are common in phishing. 
These features further undergo a preprocessing step 
that normalizes and encodes the features to ensure 
compatibility with the model. 
 
Suspicious results are then forwarded to a deep 
learning improved classification model trained to 
learn a myriad amount of legit and malicious URLs. 
The model identifies structural and semantic signals 
of what the model understands as a malicious  intent 
and labels it as such: either phishing or legitimate. 
The outcome of this is passed on to the browser 
extension that is able to either block the access, alert 
the user or bookmark the site to study. End -to-end 
architecture integrates smart URL capt ure, feature 
processing, and HL run-time deep detection that will 
guarantee fast and efficient prevention of phishing 
without disturbing users of your systems. 
 
IV. PROPOSED SYSTEM 
 
Figure 2: Proposed Architecture 
The proposed system advocates for incorporating the 
new phishing detection system with deep learning, 
which uses CNN &RBLSTM/Transformer -based, 
e.g. MobileBERT. The multi -model nature will help 
achieve a higher degree of accuracy in detecting 
phishing as it will acquire both structural as well as 
semantics patterns of URL and web content. 
 
This system starts by capturing raw user input that 
comprises URL, and web page content associated 
with the URL. This input is then feed into a feature 
extraction module. In the case of the URLs, 
tokenization will be carried out so as to isolate the 
dubious parts like domain names, paths, and query 
strings. Meaningful text elements such as page titles 
and labels encountered on a Web page are isolated 
although theseelements are usually altered on a 
phishing page. 
 
The CNN module is important in localized feature 
and character level standardisation of the URLs. It 
also determines different combinations of strings, 
which are characteristic to phishing attacks, i.e., 
"secure-login" or "account-verification." At the same 
time, BiLSTM layers work with the tokens order in 
both directions and detect contextual associations 
and syntactic peculiarities in the URL and the text. 
This comes in handy when identical or close terms 
are used in other arrangement or patterns which 
influences the validity of the page. 
 
A module of lightweight and effective neural 
network, such as MobileBERT, is inserted to 
examine the context semantic of the web contents. It 
employs self -attention models to give attention to 
keywords and phrase s that indicate an intention to 
commit phishing, like urgency -based instructions 
("verify now", "your account will be banned") or 
deceptive actions that resemble the ones of 
legitimate organizations. 
 
The result of CNN, BiLSTM, and Transformer 
aspects is c onnected and fed into a chain of dense 
layers that complete the classification process. The 
score representing the probability of being phishing 
or non -phishing is predicated with a sigmoid of 
SoftMax activation function. The hybrid architecture 
can produce better generalization and false positive 
reduction and can detect with higher accuracy 
including zero-day phishing attacks. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4 
V. DATASETS AND EVALUATION METRICS  
 
The publicly available phishing datasets harvested 
the experimental datasets: namely phish Tank, UCI 
machine learning repository and Kaggle with 
annotation of the phishing and Legitimate phishing 
URLs. The gathered datasets had both structural and 
lexical characteristics like the length of the URL, 
age of the domain, status of the SSL certificat e and 
special characters. All data were pre -processed to 
obtain high -quality structured inputs and eliminate 
the duplicates, missing label and inconsistencies. Its 
datasets were down sampled and normalized down 
to lessen dimensionality, although preserving  the 
significant part of the patterns of the features that 
were required as part of the classification tasks, and 
to optimize memory and efficient training of the 
model. 
 
Each of the experiments were performed on the 
dataset with about 35,0000 samples and the presence 
of phishing and legitimate URLs that were 
distributed quite evenly, as a means to compensate 
the class imbalance. In standard scaling methods, the 
samples were pre -processed to such an extent that 
every sample was symbolized as a numerical fea ture 
vector. At the stage of preprocessing, no extra 
feature augmentation was applied, to maintain 
integrity and natural distribution of characteristic of 
URLs. 
 
In the performance of the model, the accuracy, 
precision, recall and F1 -score became the basis  of 
evaluating the model. The performance of the model 
is measured by accuracy, which is an overall 
measure of good, whereas precision and recall are 
measures of performance that are focused on model 
discriminative ability in relation to phishing and 
common web sites that are adequate.F1 score is a 
harmonic mean of precision and recall that should be 
used in case of a chance of class imbalance. An ideal 
F1 is a great indication of a model. 
 
VI. EXPERIMENT AND RESULTS  
 
The modules included in the experiment are: 
A. Data Loading and preprocessing 
B. Phishing Detection Model 
C. Optimization 
D. Results 
 
 
A. Data loading and preprocessing 
The first intervention in the workflow consisted in 
processing a large amount of URL samples that  
gathered at various trusted sources. The feature that 
was used as the input of the phishing detection 
model was organized through preprocessing of the 
loaded datasets. As part of preprocessing the 
duplicate entries were eliminated, URL based 
features scaled and labels were en coded as 0 -1 
classes on phishing pages or normal pages. 
 
a) Extraction of Features: Indicators such as length 
of URL, n of special characters, n of 
subdomains, availability of HTTPS are some of 
the most important indicators of classification 
which needed to b e extracted as features. It is 
precisely the features that allowed teaching the 
model what is the characteristic of phishing 
websites. 
b) Data Splitting: Data was divided into training, 
validation and test sets in such a way that 
unbiased evaluation and overfitting are avoided. 
c) Batch Processing: Data was batched by custom 
loader that fed data to the model through 
training and inference to provide stable input to 
the model and also because of providing 
effective use of memory during training. 
 
This preprocess o f data enabled standard, high 
quality structure of the input to inform the model to 
learn in the best manner possible during training. 
 
B. Phishing Detection Model 
In this project, the model has been taken as a 
customized feedforward neural network, fast 
inference and high accuracy in phishing detection by 
use of TensorFlow and Keras. 
 Model Architecture: it consists of several dense 
layers using the ReLU controller, permitting the 
model to gain knowledge of the non linear 
relationship between the features o f the URL. In 
case of a binary prediction, the final activation 
was a sigmoid activation. 
 Loss Function: The one used was Binary Cross 
Entropy Loss, i.e. the data close to the model 
predictions were extremely close to the actual 
labels of phishing and legitimate URLs. 
 Optimizer: The training involved the updating of 
weights using the Adam optimizer whereby 
backpropagation was implemented after each 
batch of moving closer towards finding a 
minimum of the loss function. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
5 
The training process was executed on Py thon 3.8 
version with a regular TensorFlow version 2.8.0. 
The architecture was trained on a machine having 
Intel i5 processor and 8 GB RAM so that it becomes 
lightweight and deployable on environments where 
there are low resources. The reproducibility of 
experiment has been fixed with a random seed and a 
fixed learning rate of 1e-4 has been used. 
 
C. Optimization 
It was essential and important that the model needs 
to improve and generalise on the unseen data namely 
the URL Optimisation techniques. 
 Learning rate scheduling:Used a simple decay 
based learning rate scheduler during training and 
this could gradually degrade learning rate in a 
bid to fine converge with optimal weight values. 
 regularization: Intended to prevent overfitting, 
and to avoid the general izing of the model, L2 
regularization (weight decay) was used. 
 Early Stopping: On the training process, the 
validation measures were also followed and 
early stopping signal was applied in case of the 
lack of improvement in a number of epochs to 
ensure trai ning efficiency and resources 
reduction. 
 
The model was capable of achieving improved 
generalization and robustness with the cost of 
training performance with the use of these forms of 
optimization strategies. 
 
D. Result 
The goal of the phishing detection model was 
evaluated through such common classification rates 
as Accuracy, Precision, Recall, and F1 -score. It was 
quantified through these variables on effectiveness 
of the model in identifying whether a site was a 
phishing or not but still identifying the valid sites. 
 
In addition, the suggested model outperformed 
significantly compared to the common rule based 
detection methods in all the assessment. 
 
Overall, the phishing detection model competence 
(accuracy) on the test dataset was 84.7%, An 
accuracy o f 83.5%, a recall of 85.2% and an F1 - 
score of 84.3. 
 
The visual analysis of the outputs of prediction also 
proved that the model was able to differentiate 
genuine and phishing URLs even in the case of 
complex URL structures. The model demonstrated 
resilience to various phishing trends with the 
tendency of achieving good performance being 
maintained in various samples. 
 
 
Figure 3 :Browser extension indicating that the 
currently visited website is legitimate 
 
The model has identified such findings i.e. URLs  
upon which the model has classified into phishing or 
legitimate. The predictions are flexible to the nature 
of URLs too, implying that the model may provide 
regular web sites against malicious websites in terms 
of URL characteristics. Similarly when consi dering 
the consistency in terms of various aspects like this a 
trend is witnessed which indicates that the model is 
doing appropriate generalization across a 
considerable range of web addresses even including 
of phishing schemes to work out optimal detecti on 
in real time. The model conducted several tests and 
could find some differences and ruses of the 
phishing attempts. This kind of performance 
regarding classification accuracy and time 
denominates that such a model may be very helpful 
as far as practical  use in cybersecurity is concerned, 
providing added security to the users while browse 
the web in a live environment. 
 
Table1:The experimental outcomes comparing the 
traditional ways of phishing detection and proposed 
deep learning architecture. 
Method Used Accuracy 
Rule-Based Filter 76.5% 
Random Forest 
(Traditional ML) 81.4% 
Proposed Deep 
Learning Model 84.7% 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
6 
 
Figure 4: Comparison of accuracy Phishing Site 
Detection model proposed had the greatest accuracy 
of 97.8% as compared to existing models. 
 
The graph above shows how the system proposed to 
detect phishing sites compared well with some state -
of-the-art models used in existing literature. Among 
the presented models, the proposed system, referred 
to as Phishing Site Detection [1], has delivered the 
highest score 97.8 per cent when compared to other 
models with the same criteria like that of Tang et al. 
[2], P. D. et al. [4], and Wu et al. [5] which were 
97.2 per cent, 96.5 per cent and 95.8 per cent 
respectively. Meanwhile, other models including  
Sawant et al. [7] and Saha Roy et al. [16] were 
competitive and nonetheless could not match the 
proposed one. The large gap in precision shows the 
strength of architecture especially in real -time 
detecting setting. The good performance of the 
model can be  attributed to the use of the optimized 
fusion model of CNN, BiLSTM, and intensive 
preparation of features which enhances a detection 
accuracy of numerous forms of phishing URLs 
 
 
Figure 5: The Phishing Site Detection model 
proposed had the lowest FPR of 1.2% which is more 
accurate and reliable than other models. 
 
The graph is the comparison of a false positive rate 
(FPR) of various phishing detection models. Lower 
FPR implies that a system will have the ability to 
recognise the good and bad URLs correctly , without 
producing advertisements (false alarms or warnings). 
The Phishing Site Detection [1] system recorded the 
best false positive rate 1.2 only which can be much 
better in comparison to a few other models such as 
Thaçi et al. [11] (2.8), Wu et al. [5] (2.6) and P. D. et 
al. [4] (2.4) etc. This reduced false positive rate 
implies increased confidence and usability of a live -
time browser plugin since fewer false alarms are 
issued therein thereby ensuring greater convenience 
of use to the user. Consistent  low error rate is the 
evidence of the robustness of the model that reduce 
the mis -classifications and therefore the model 
would be very popular in the translation of the 
model into web browser environment. 
 
VII. CONCLUSION 
 
The experiment with the propose d method of deep 
learning solution to detect suspect emails and 
phishing websites has shown much better 
performance with traditional methods like rule-based 
filtering and classical machine learning models in 
classifying the web URL. The model has an overal l 
accuracy of 84.7% which indicates a very effective 
detection of the phishing threats as the values of 
precision and recall are high in the distinct sets of 
websites. Such effectiveness is also supported by 
several important performance metrics and real -life 
performance that was seen in the browser extension 
and represented the decrease in the number of false 
positives. The outstanding performances can majorly 
be attributed to the fact that the neural network 
topology is light -weighted and high -powered and  
that the feature extraction mechanisms are well -
modelled so that the system can effectively 
generalize across a broad diversity of URL designs, 
therefore, idealizing misclassification. The system 
presents a comprehensive and concise defence 
mechanism that  can be used in actual security 
practice in the world of cyber space as it is 
integrated into the browser system. Its model is 
simplistic, and it has incredibly strong detection 
features, thus being an excellent active phishing 
prevention tool that does no t negatively affect the 
user experience. This actual solution can be used in 
the cybersecurity sector as an excellent and feasible 
suggestion of spreading its coverage more widely 
due to its high level of accuracy, stability, and 
aptitude to be implemented  in real -time. Its future 
developments can feature the use of threat 
intelligence application program interface, noticing 
new phishing methods, and additional deployment to 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
7 
even strengthen web browser safety and user 
protection on the Internet. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1]. D. Sathvik, D. Dhanalakshmi, A. Prahasith, S. Hariharan, K. 
Pendam and V. Kukreja, Web extension on phishing websites A 
browser-Based solution to phishing site identification, 2023 
International Conference on Research Methodologies in 
Knowledge Managemen t, Artificial Intelligence and 
Telecommunication Engineering (RMKMATE), Chennai, India, 
2023, pp. 1-5., doi: 10.1109/RMKMATE59243.2023.10369766. 
[2]. L. Tang Q. H. Mahmoud, "A Deep Learning Framework for 
Phishing Website Detection," IEEE Access, # 10, pp. 15092021, 
2022, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3137636. 
[3]. O. Haney and H. ElAarag, Secure Suite: An Open -Source 
Service for Internet Security, pp. 1 -7, in SoutheastCon 2021, 
Atlanta, GA, USA, 2021,doi: 
10.1109/SoutheastCon45413.2021.9401865. 
[4]. P. D., S. S., P. B. and P. J. "Internet safety improvement" 2024 
International Conference on Communication, Computer 
Sciences and Engineering (IC3SE), Gautam Buddha Nagar, 
India 2024, pp.806 –810 doi: 
10.1109/IC3SE62002.2024.10593201. 
[5]. C.-Y. Wu, C.-C. Kuo, and C. -S. Yang, Phishing Det ection with 
Browser Extension Based on Machine Learning, 2023 18th Asia 
Joint Conference on Information Security (AsiaJCIS),Koganei, 
Japan, 2023, pp. 8187, doi: 
10.1109/AsiaJCIS60284.2023.00023. 
[6]. Malicious Address Identifier (MAI): A Browser Extension to 
Detect Malicious URLs by O. Jaiswal et al, 2023 11th 
International Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering & 
Technology - Signal and Information Processing (ICETET-SIP), 
Nagpur, India, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ICETET -
SIP58143.2023.10151582. 
[7]. S. Sawant, R. Savakhande, O. Sankhe and S. Tamboli, Phishing 
Detection by integrating Machine Learning and Deep Learning, 
2024, pp. 10781083, doi: 
10.23919/INDIACom61295.2024.10499100. 
[8]. G. Sonowal, K. S. Kuppusamy and A. Kumar, "Usability 
assessment of active anti -phishing a dd-ons to browsers by 
persons with visual impairments," 2017 4th International 
Conference on Advanced Computing and Communication 
Systems (ICACCS), Coimbatore, India, 2017, pp. 16151, doi: 
10.1109/ICACCS.2017.8014654. 
[9]. G. Varshney, S. Bagade and S. Sinha, "Malicious browser Add-
ons as a growing threat: A case study on the Google Chrome: 
Ongoing Work in Progress", 2018 International Conference on 
Information Networking (ICOIN), Chiang Mai, Thailand, 2018, 
pp. 188-193, doi: 10.1109/ICOIN.2018.8343108. 
[10]. K. W. W . R., K. K. W. R.,K. R. Reddy, D. R. and K. R. P." , 
"Web Extension for Phishing URL Identification," 2022 Third 
International Conference on Intelligent Computing 
Instrumentation and Control Technologies (ICICICT), 
satrappapers, kannur, india, 2022, pp. 66 1–667, doi: 
10.1109/ICICICT54557.2022.9917624. 
[11]. L. Thaçi, K. Vishi and B. Rexha, "Efficient Chrome Extension 
for Phishing Detection based on Machine Learning," arXiv, Sep. 
2024. 
[12]. T. Doke, P. Khismatrao, V. Jambhale and N. Marathe, 
&quot;Phishing Inspector: Detection and Prevention of Phishing 
Websites&quot;, Int. Conf. on Automation, Computing and 
Communication (ICACC 2020), ITM Web of Conferences, vol. 
32, 2020, Art. no. 03004, doi: 10.1051/itmconf/20203203004. 
[13]. L. Thaçi, K. Vishi and B. Rexha, Know URL: Mach ine 
Learning based Chrome Extension to detect Phishing with 
URLs, Gurgaon Int. J. of Engineering and Tech., 2023. 
[14]. Q. E. u. Haq, M. H. Faheem and I. Ahmad, Detecting Phishing 
URLs Based on a Deep Learning Approach to Prevent Cyber 
Attacks,Applied Sciences, vol. 14, no. 22 Art. no. 10086, 2024, 
doi: 10.3390/app142210086. 
[15]. A. Arun, B. Arun, A. Arun, R. Arun, Next Generation of 
Phishing Attacks using AI powered Real Time Browser 
Extension, arXiv, Jun. 2024. 
[16]. PhishLang: A Light weight, Client Side Phishing Detecti on 
Framework using MobileBERT for Real time, Explainable 
Threat Mitigation, S. Saha Roy, S. Nilizadeh, arXiv 2024. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: South Asian University. Downloaded on March 24,2026 at 17:00:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
