RESEARCH
Journal of Computer Virology and Hacking Techniques            (2026) 22:8 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11416-025-00578-w
and install new extensions easily. Google Chrome, the 
world’s most used browser [ 47], stores all extensions in 
a repository named the Chrome Web Store (CWS). How -
ever, the CWS is not simply a repository of extensions but 
a fully-fledged online storefront complete with categories, 
charts of the most popular extensions, and personalised rec-
ommendations. To present users with relevant suggestions, 
the CWS implements a Collaborative Filtering Recom -
mendation System (CFRS) by letting users rate and review 
extensions on their platform to share their experiences and 
opinions with other users [19].
Installing extensions from the CWS is a straightforward 
procedure. Users must press the install/add button on the 
desired extension download page. Also, if applicable, users 
must approve any permissions the extension requires in a 
separate pop-up window. Therefore, personalising one’s 
browser to fit one’s preference is reasonably straightfor -
ward. This “app within an app” perspective may make 
users complacent and overlook the security implications of 
installing extensions that have partial access to their com -
puter and could be malicious or otherwise make them vul -
nerable to malware on the web [7, 46, 51, 62].
Malware among browser extensions comes in many 
forms, as an extension can not only access the users’ devices 
1 Introduction
Internet browsers are popular software applications included 
in most operating systems. Browsers like Google Chrome, 
Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Edge allow users access to 
near-limitless information and entertainment. The sheer ver-
satility required to cater to every user is a futile exercise for 
browser developers, leading to the creation of third-party 
browser extensions. Extensions enable users to customise 
their browsers to suit their needs and preferences by add -
ing additional features, such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
writing assistance, scraping the web for possible discount 
coupons or website translation tools.
Most popular browser vendors curate available exten -
sions through their repositories to enable users to discover 
  Pablo Picazo-Sanchez
ppicazo@hh.se
Adam Flemark
adam.flemark@gmail.com
Axel Paulander
axel.paulander@gmail.com
1 Halmstad University, Halmstad, Sweden
Abstract
With the increasing popularity of browser extensions, there is a growing concern about malicious actors exploiting this 
software to distribute malware. Existing solutions rely on manual review processes or traditional methods like static, 
dynamic or hybrid analysis, which are insufficient in detecting complex and evolving threats. In this study, we investigate 
the potential of Natural Language Processing (NLP) for automatically classifying users’ comments in the Chrome Web 
Store, the public repository where extensions are stored and distributed, to identify malicious extensions. We propose a 
novel framework called CoTH that leverages NLP techniques to analyse the textual feedback provided by users and detect 
patterns indicative of malicious activity. We evaluate the accuracy of our model using a dataset of user reviews and dem -
onstrate its effectiveness in identifying malicious extensions. Our findings suggest that NLP-based comment analysis can 
be a valuable addition to existing security measures, providing an opportunity for more accurate and efficient detection of 
malware in the Chrome Web Store.
Keywords NLP · Web security · Browser extensions · Malware
Received: 22 February 2025 / Accepted: 15 September 2025
© The Author(s) 2025
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious 
browser extensions
Adam Flemark1 · Axel Paulander1 · Pablo Picazo-Sanchez1
1 3

A. Flemark et al.
but also inject arbitrary HTML and JavaScript into the web 
pages that the users visit. These capabilities allow malicious 
extensions to log keystrokes to steal login information [62], 
inject malicious advertisements [ 46], harvest computation 
power for botnets [ 7] and more. According to Kaspersky, 
these malicious browser extensions affect millions of users, 
having around 87 million downloads from just the CWS 
[51].
Researchers are addressing the challenge posed by mali-
cious actors [14, 17, 30, 39]. However, there is no one per-
fect solution to prevent or immediately flag these malicious 
extensions from entering the CWS ecosystem and harming 
users. Although most researchers have proposed solutions 
based on static [28, 36, 44], dynamic [6, 34, 50], or hybrid 
analysis [45, 56, 58], recent researchers have proposed solu-
tions by analysing the metadata that Google publicly shows 
in the CWS, like the pattern of the number of downloads 
[39], or the time overlap of the users’ comments [33].
An alternate avenue of metadata analysis is Natural Lan-
guage Processing (NLP), which enables researchers to use 
the large corpora of text available in the metadata to detect 
non-trivial patterns in text, making it possible to perform 
analysis using previously neglected data. With the advent 
of NLP, there is an overlooked question in malware detec -
tion of browser extensions, which motivates us to find the 
answer to the following research question:
   RQ: Is it possible to detect malicious extensions by 
analysing users’ comments?
Inspired by recent research where authors demonstrated 
that users can easily manipulate the review system that 
the CWS implements by flooding the page with positive 
reviews and ratings to make their extension appear better 
and more prevalent than in reality [ 33], we propose CoTH 
(Comments To Threats), a framework that leverages NLP to 
classify browser extensions and to detect whether they are 
malicious by analysing the comments written by users in the 
CWS. To answer our research question, we evaluate CoTH 
using a dataset of over 1.7 million reviews from 1.5 million 
users on 55,000 extensions collected by scraping the CWS 
as of Feb 2024.
The rest of the paper is organised as follows. Section 2 
presents some basic concepts and definitions. Section 3 
details the source and structure of the dataset used. Sec -
tion 4 covers our novel framework. We present the related 
work in Sect. 5 and conclude the document in Sect. 6.
2 Background
This section covers some of the concepts and general defini-
tions necessary to fully understand this document. In partic-
ular, we focus on data augmentation and ensemble methods, 
two methods that we use throughout the document.
2.1 Data augmentation
Ideally, the datasets used for training Machine Learning 
(ML) models should be balanced, i.e., datasets that have the 
same number of instances for each class label. Such a bal -
anced dataset is a common assumption in model develop -
ment, but such a claim becomes challenging in real-world 
scenarios, especially in malware analysis. In fact, most 
datasets are imbalanced, with benign classes dominating the 
dataset, and it is most often the minority class (malicious 
samples) that is of interest [61].
When training a model on such imbalanced data, per -
formance usually suffer due to biased learning [ 24]. As a 
consequence, traditional accuracy metrics like accuracy 
and precision may provide unrealistic values when applied 
to imbalanced datasets. To illustrate this point, consider a 
dataset comprising 90% instances of one class and 10% 
instances of another. If a model were to assume that all data 
belonged to the majority class, evaluating its accuracy on 
this dataset would yield an apparent score of 90%, which 
may seem impressive.
There are many ways to combat the issues brought on 
by imbalanced data, being undersampling and oversam-
pling the most common strategies. When augmenting the 
dataset, it is most common to either remove instances of 
the majority class, known as undersampling, or conversely 
add instances of the minority class, known as oversampling. 
Crucially, oversampling does not include measuring new 
data, instead, new instances of the minority class are syn -
thetically generated either by repeating known values or by 
generating new points using techniques such as Synthetic 
Minority Over-sampling (SMOTE) [11].
2.1.1 Undersampling
The goal of undersampling is to reduce the number of 
entries of the majority class to a number closer to that of the 
minority class. There are two major approaches to doing so: 
generation and selection.
In generation, undersampling is achieved by creating an 
entirely new dataset that is both balanced and aims to retain 
the structure of our data. This can be done by e.g., using 
k-means clustering on the original data and then creating 
synthetic data by randomly selecting several points inside 
clusters associated with each label.
1 3
    8  Page 2 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
Selection, on the other hand, reduces the dataset by select-
ing relevant samples using some heuristic. One example of 
selection aims to de-noise the decision boundary by remov-
ing pairs of points that are both of opposite classes and each 
other’s closest neighbours, so-called Tomek links [ 52], or 
using a k-Nearest Neighbors (kNN) classifier trained on the 
whole dataset and then removing any point for which the 
classifier predicts the incorrect class [59].
2.1.2 Oversampling: translation and back-translation
The opposite approach to undersampling is oversampling, 
where the aim is to generate new data that is still highly rel-
evant and realistic. For example, in image-related tasks, one 
might rotate some images. While it might look the same to 
human eyes, since the pixels are now in a new order, it is an 
entirely unseen image for a computer model. In text-related 
tasks, the aim is to change the phrasing but not the content 
of our data.
There are two popular approaches to do so: back trans-
lation and paraphrasing. In back translation, the idea is to 
translate the text into other languages and then back to the 
target language, hopefully resulting in a rephrased version 
of the original sentence. On the other hand, paraphrasing 
aims to rephrase the text more directly. While humans could 
do this, e.g., volunteers, this is often unrealistic due to many 
factors, including but not limited to: cost of labour, human 
inconsistency, and time constraints.
Therefore, back translation is widely used, specifically 
for training Large Language Models (LLMs) [ 9]. When 
applying data augmentations to specific data points, one can 
either do so ahead of time and append the new data to the 
dataset or apply augmentations on the fly during training 
using random probability.
2.2 Ensemble methods
Ensemble methods are a common approach in ML, combin-
ing multiple models to perform a specific task, such as classi-
fication [29]. By leveraging these models’ diverse strengths 
and weaknesses, ensemble methods aim to improve over -
all performance through increased accuracy and reduced 
overfitting, where a model performs poorly on new, unseen 
data despite excellent performance on training data. When 
implementing ensemble methods, it is necessary to decide 
how to combine the multiple outputs produced by the mod-
els to achieve optimal accuracy in the final output. Some of 
the common combination strategies for classification tasks 
include majority voting, weighted voting, or averaging pre-
dicted probabilities. These approaches are sometimes called 
voting systems.
The most straightforward voting system is the majority 
vote, where the most common output from each model is 
used as the final ensemble output. However, this approach 
overlooks a crucial factor: certainty. In reality, models often 
produce floating point numbers between 0 and 1, which can 
be interpreted as the model’ s certainty. This certainty is a 
key consideration in voting systems, as it can influence the 
final ensemble output and the overall performance of the 
ensemble.
Two ways of incorporating certainty into the vote are the 
highest unstandardised and highest standardised value [38]. 
The highest unstandardised or standardised value works 
similarly, where the model’s certainties for each label are 
summed, and the highest total certainty is picked for the 
final output. The difference between the two approaches 
comes from the preprocessing done on the certainties before 
taking their sum. While the highest unstandardised value 
uses the certainties as-is, the highest standardised approach 
first standardises the certainties using min-max scaling. 
Standardising the values results in what can be practically 
interpreted as a ranking from least to most certain.
3 Reviews in the web store
As of February 2024, we scrapped CWS and found over 
120,000 browser extensions. Among them, not all exten -
sions had reviews. In particular, we found that less than 
a half (over 55,000) had at least one review. In total, we 
downloaded 1.7 million reviews. For each review we got 
the userID; the review itself; the rating on a scale of 
1–5 stars the user gave, and; when the review was written 
(timestamp). Additionally, for every one of the 55k exten-
sions, we continuously queried Google for its maliciousness 
for 6 months. This malware label is the class label of the 
associated extension certified by Google following the same 
methodology as other researchers recently presented [ 31]. 
We include a summary of the information we downloaded 
in Table 1. To replicate the dataset used in our experiments, 
researchers may use alternative sources, such as  h t t p s : / / c h r o 
m e - s t a t s . c o m     , corresponding to the same time frame.
Imbalanced Dataset. In our dataset, 0.49% of the exten -
sions are malicious (around 270 malicious extensions). 
Regarding reviews, over 1.91% (over 33,000 comments) of 
Table 1 Extensions’ comments and metadata we downloaded from the 
CWS as of February 2024
Feature dtype Desciption
ExtensionID String Extension identifier
UserID String User identifier
Review String User review
Timestamp int64 ms since Unix epoch
Rating int64 User rating (1–5 stars)
Malware Boolean Class label (malicious/benign)
1 3
Page 3 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
extension. Similarly, a malicious review might also be a 
false positive testimony on a malicious extension with the 
intent to increase perceived trustworthiness and increase the 
extension’s popularity to reach more devices. Leaving mali-
cious reviews of either type is known as “search rank fraud” 
[41].
While identification of malicious reviews by the above 
definition would no doubt prove valuable for malware 
detection as a whole, labelling such a dataset would be chal-
lenging and is, therefore, outside the scope of this research. 
Therefore, the maliciousness of a review is instead bound 
to the extension it is left on. All comments on benign exten-
sions are considered benign; likewise, all comments on 
malicious reviews are considered malicious.
3.2 Clustering
To cluster comments, the first and most straightforward 
approach is to use both the number of reviews and the length 
of the reviews for the benign and malicious extensions as 
we can see in Figs. 1 and 2. With this simple-but-effective 
approach, we empirically demonstrate that both the number 
of reviews and their length exhibit some patterns that can 
be used as an indication for malware detection. The draw -
back is that it will be easy to bypass by malicious actors 
and circumvent any solution based on these metrics. In 
the reviews are associated with malicious extensions, i.e., 
reviews posted by users on extensions that Google con -
siders malicious. Furthermore, the number of reviews per 
extension is highly imbalanced, with most extensions hav -
ing only a small number of reviews, as seen in Fig. 1.
More concretely, we find that around 79.31% of the 
extensions have fewer than ten reviews, while only around 
20.69% of the extensions have more than ten reviews. We 
also find that the largest 13.6% of extensions by number of 
reviews contain about 90% of all reviews. This data imbal -
ance makes training robust models across different exten -
sion types and review volumes challenging.
3.1 Malicious extensions and comments
A malicious extension is a blanket term for a browser exten-
sion designed to cause some negative effect on the user. 
These effects can range from illegal data collection and 
injection of unsolicited ads to modifying the web contents 
[55, 60].
On the other hand, we define a malicious review or com-
ment as a comment left intending to deceive others about 
the commented extension. Depending on who is leaving the 
malicious comment, it could be false accusations of mali -
cious behaviour to reduce popularity in the commented 
extension and increase popularity in another competing 
Fig. 2 Distribution of the length of 
reviews per extension in the CWS 
as of February 2024
 
Fig. 1 Distribution of number of 
reviews per extension as of Febru-
ary 2024 in the CWS
 
1 3
    8  Page 4 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
For example, a “10/10 Would recommend!” review 
becomes [number, verb, verb, punctuation]. 
We then use Term Frequency–Inverse Document Frequency 
(TF-IDF) to convert our POS tags into numerical features. 
TF-IDF achieves this text-to-number conversion using 
Equations (1) to (3) where the variables are: a term t, a doc-
ument d the frequency of t in d ft,d and the set of all docu-
ments D. In our case, a term is an n-gram of POS tags, and a 
document is a single review. This allows us to convert each 
review into a high-dimensional vector of numerical features 
where the position represents some n-gram present in the 
corpus, and the value is the TF-IDF score of that n-gram if it 
is present in the document or zero otherwise. After extract -
ing our numerical features, we applied HDBSCAN to clus -
ter our reviews.
tf(t, d)= ft,d∑
t′ ∈d ft′ ,d
 (1)
idf(t, D) = log |D |
|{d : d ∈ D and t ∈ d}|  (2)
tﬁdf (t, d, D)= tf(t, d)· idf(t, D)  (3)
For this experiment, first we filtered extensions with 
more than 5 reviews and less than 50, so we can remove 
all popular extensions that just add noise to the analysis. 
After that, we use Spacy, a well-known library in Python 
and more concretely, the en_core_web_lg pipeline,1 to 
get the POS tags of all reviews. After the filtering process, 
we analysed over 4,300 reviews written in 306 extensions 
(136 benign and 136 malicious ones). We randomly used a 
subset since clustering the entire dataset does not yield any 
valuable information because of clutter and the entropy of 
user reviews, leading to large amounts of outliers. Finally, 
to cluster POS tags, we used HDBSCAN with a minimum 
size of cluster of 4 reviews. Out of the 306 extensions, 
HDBSCAN could not classify 101, i.e., over 33% of the 
extensions.
Table 3 gives a good sense of the homogeneity within the 
different clusters. By looking at the outermost cases, which 
tell us the number of clusters that only contain malicious 
or benign reviews, we can see that the combination of TF-
IDF and HDBSCAN can pick up underlying patterns in the 
reviews left on browser extensions quite effectively.
After some manual analysis of the clusters, we could 
find a cluster composed of 10 malicious extensions (see 
Table 2). sharing the same reviews’ structure among them 
all. Although we can see some patterns, the problem is that 
the clustering is far from perfect, as we can see in Table 3, 
1 https://spacy.io/models/en
other words, malware extensions might alter the number 
of reviews as well as the length so any detection algorithm 
solely based on these two metrics, will become useless.
Our second approach is to get the Part-of-Speech (POS) 
tags of all reviews, converting each part in a review to the 
name of its function or word class and later, we apply Hier-
archical Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications 
with Noise (HDBSCAN), a clustering method, to group 
reviews from malicious and benign extensions based solely 
on their content.
Table 2 POS analysis using en_core_web_lg model from Spacy of 
a malicious cluster composed of 10 extensions
Extension ID POS Elements
gfbgiekofllpkpaoadjhbbfnljbcimoh [’DET’, ’ADJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’PRON’, 
’VERB’, ’PRON’, 
’ADP’, ’PRON’, 
’NOUN’, ’PUNCT’]
diapmighkmmnpmdkfnmlbpkjkealjojg [’DET’, ’ADJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’PRON’, 
’VERB’, ’PRON’, 
’ADP’, ’PRON’, 
’NOUN’, ’PUNCT’]
hdgdghnfcappcodemanhafioghjhlbpb [’DET’, ’ADJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’PRON’, 
’VERB’, ’DET’, 
’NOUN’, ’CCONJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’ADP’, 
’DET’, ’NOUN’, 
’PUNCT’]
pbdpfhmbdldfoioggnphkiocpidecmbp [’DET’, ’ADJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’PRON’, 
’VERB’, ’DET’, 
’NOUN’, ’CCONJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’ADP’, 
’DET’, ’NOUN’, 
’PUNCT’]
iicpikopjmmincpjkckdngpkmlcchold [’DET’, ’ADJ’, 
’NOUN’, ’PRON’, 
’VERB’]
mgkbeabpcphiihfgjofinnlfcjjaagpe [’ADJ’, ’NOUN’, 
’PRON’, ’VERB’, 
’DET’]
oakbcaafbicdddpdlhbchhpblmhefngh [’PRON’, ’ADV’, 
’VERB’, ’PRON’, 
’ADP’]
dppnhoaonckcimpejpjodcdoenfjleme [’PRON’, ’ADV’, 
’VERB’, ’PRON’, 
’ADP’, ’PRON’, 
’NOUN’, ’PUNCT’]
bkpdalonclochcahhipekbnedhklcdnp [’PRON’, ’ADV’, 
’VERB’, ’PRON’, 
’ADP’, ’PRON’, 
’NOUN’, ’PUNCT’]
phepcklpbfinbfflpjnmehcnnoofbghp [’PRON’, ’VERB’, 
’PRON’, ’ADP’, 
’PRON’, ’NOUN’, 
’CCONJ’, ’PRON’, 
’AUX’, ’PART’, 
’VERB’, ’PUNCT’]
1 3
Page 5 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
whole. Multiple voting systems can be used, like with the 
LLM of the classification component.
4.2 Data pre-processing
For CoTH to work as intended, the data might require pre-
processing. What kind of pre-processing is required depends 
on the LLM models chosen for the other components. If, for 
example, any model in the pipeline is only trained in a sin -
gle language, all data must be translated into that language. 
For instance, “twitter-roberta-base-sentiment-latest”, one 
of the top 4 most downloaded text classification models on 
Hugging Face with over 2 M downloads as of May 2024, 3 
was trained on English texts, so if CoTH would use such a 
model, the reviews should be in English. Different strategies 
exist to overcome such constraints if an all-English dataset 
is unavailable. For example, translating all the reviews to 
English using external software or filtering out and keeping 
only the English comments.
Similarly, to prevent over- and underfitting issues brought 
on by imbalanced data, such data must be resampled before 
being used for training CoTH. For example, our dataset 
presented in Sect. 3 has about 1.91% malicious reviews—
reviews written on malicious extensions. This is heavily 
imbalanced and would therefore require some resampling 
for CoTH, or any model for that matter, to fit correctly with-
out over- or underfitting dramatically.
4.3 Reliability scoring
After the initial data pre-processing, the subsequent task 
of calculating reliability scores can start. CoTH does not 
require any specific models for this task. It uses the models 
3  h t t p s :   /  / h u g g i  n g f  a c  e  . c  o  / m o  d e   l s ? p  i p e  l i   n e _   t a g  = t  e  x t -  c l a  s s i  fi  c a   t i  o n &  s o r 
t = d o w n l o a d s.
where the perfect solution would be pure clusters, i.e., clus-
ters entirely composed of either benign or malicious exten -
sions. These numbers are even more spread when we use 
the entire dataset.
4 CoTH: from comments to threats
To answer our research question: “Is it possible to detect 
malicious extensions by analysing users’ comments?”, 
in this section, we present CoTH, a novel framework that 
leverages NLP to flag potential malicious browser exten -
sions based on the comments that users write in the CWS.
4.1 Architecture
To enable the classification of extensions based on their 
reviews, CoTH implements a combination of LLM, tradi -
tional neural networks and voting systems. CoTH’s archi -
tecture, see Fig. 3, implements four main components: data 
pre-processing, reliability scoring, classification and voting.
The initial reliability scoring system makes use of pre-
trained LLM to generate additional features for later steps. 
These numerical features are referred to as “reliability” and 
“time-scaled reliability”, covered in depth in Sect. 4.3.
The classification components use the raw comment as 
input to another pre-trained LLM. Then, the LLM’s CLS 2 
token and the previously generated numerical features are 
all passed through a fully connected layer to generate the 
final classification. Here, the classification is on a review 
level, as discussed in Sect. 3.1. CoTH does not require 
any specific LLM for the classification component as it is 
intended to go through some epochs of fine-tuning before 
making any inference. However, the selected LLM could 
have implications for the overall performance, covered in 
Sect. 4.6.
The last component, voting, is how CoTH can classify 
a single extension based on many reviews. Each review is 
passed through the classification component, and the out -
puts are then used as votes to classify the extension as a 
2 stands for classify token.
Table 3 Small subset of a cluster distribution produced by HDBSCAN. 
0% means clusters solely composed by benign extensions whereas 
100% are clusters entirely composed of malicious extensions
% of Malicious Reviews 0% 0–50% 50–80% 80–100% Total
# of Clusters 36 87 30 61 192
% of Maliciousness 0% 44.6% 70.1% 99.7%
# Extensions 79 234 117 156 586
   Reviews
Data Pre-Processing
Translate to 
English
Resampling
&
Size Reduction
CoTH
   Reliability
Score
LLMs
Fully Connected
Layer
Extension
Voting
Fig. 3 CoTH model architecture and the data pre-processing stage
 
1 3
    8  Page 6 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
result. This allows CoTH to be modified to fit different mal-
ware detection pipelines with different model-performance 
preferences.
In the classification model, the chosen LLM receives raw 
user comments as input. Then, for each comment, the CLS 
token from the LLM is concatenated with a vector of the 
reliability and time-scaled reliability scores associated with 
that comment. This new feature vector is then fed to a fully 
connected layer, which attempts to classify the comments 
as malicious or benign according to the definition discussed 
in Sect. 3.1.
Although we call this component “classification”, it is 
not the final step as it classifies single reviews as opposed 
to full extensions.
4.5 Voting
The voting component classifies what we call a full exten -
sion by aggregating its individual reviews. Each review 
classification from the previous component is regrouped 
according to its associated extension. Then, similarly to how 
CoTH generates the reliability scores, a vote takes place. 
The voting component uses the same voting schemes as 
reliability scores: majority vote, highest unstandardised and 
highest standardised.
Majority voting handles each review equally, i.e., label -
ling an extension as malicious if more than 50% of its 
reviews predict malware. Unstandardised probabilistic vot -
ing sums the raw model probabilities for each class, giv -
ing more influence to confident predictions. This leverages 
the model’s inherent confidence and mitigates the impact 
of uncertain predictions. Finally, standardized probabilistic 
voting first rescales the probabilities per extension and then 
sums them. This prevents extensions with extreme score 
ranges from dominating the aggregated result.
Unlike the reliability score component, which aggregates 
outputs from multiple models for the same review, the voting 
component aggregates outputs from the same model across 
all reviews of a given extension to classify the extension.
Note that CoTH does not assign manual weights at any 
point during this process. The aggregation methods inher -
ently weight reviews either equally (majority) or accord -
ing to their predicted confidence (unstandardised and 
standardised).
4.6 Evaluation
Given that our CoTH evaluation implements some mod -
els pretrained only in English, the first step in the data 
pre-processing pipeline involves translating all available 
reviews into English. In particular, we used Google Trans -
late through an API, although other translation methods 
in a collective decision-making process whereby each model 
determines a reliability score for individual users by voting. 
We implement three different voting strategies: a majority 
vote, the highest unstandardised value, and the highest stan-
dardised value.
The most straightforward voting system is the majority 
vote, where the most common output from each model is 
used as the final ensemble output. However, this approach 
overlooks a crucial factor: certainty. Models often produce 
floating point numbers between 0 and 1, which can be inter-
preted as the model’ s certainty. This certainty is a critical 
consideration in voting systems, as it can influence the 
final ensemble output and the overall performance of the 
ensemble.
Two ways of incorporating certainty into the vote are 
the highest unstandardised and highest standardised values 
[38]. These values work similarly, where the model’s cer -
tainties for each label are summed, and the highest total cer-
tainty is picked for the final output. The difference between 
the two approaches comes from the preprocessing done on 
the certainties before taking their sum. While the highest 
unstandardised value uses the certainties as-is, the highest 
standardised approach first standardises the certainties using 
min-max scaling. Standardising the values results in what 
can be practically interpreted as a ranking from least to most 
certain.
By classifying all known reviews, CoTH can then cal -
culate the frequency of “genuine” reviews for each user 
according to our system; we refer to this value as the users 
“reliability”. For the training set, all reviews in such a set 
contribute to calculating the reliability scores, but the same 
is not valid for the evaluation set. For the evaluation set, the 
reliability scores are instead calculated on a per-extension 
basis where, for each extension, only that extension and the 
training set are considered. This emulates receiving each 
extension in the evaluation set as new data to update the 
reliabilities of known and new users.
After getting the reliability scores for all users, CoTH 
appends the scores for a given user to all reviews left by that 
user. Then, it scales each score by the age of its associated 
review compared to the oldest and newest reviews on the 
same extension. This “time-scaled reliability” gives older 
reviews for an extension less influence than more recent 
reviews, which is essential as a user or extension could have 
been malicious in the past but no longer or vice-versa.
4.4 Classification
CoTH is agnostic of the LLM used in its construction. How-
ever, different LLM might yield different performance and 
characteristics. One LLM might result in a high precision 
with a low recall, and another LLM might give the opposite 
1 3
Page 7 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
i) Twitter-RoBERTa Sentiment [53];
ii) Otis Anti-Spam [35];
iii) BERTPhishing [10];
iv) BERT [12], and;
v) distilBERT [42]).
The selection comprises a diverse mix of models trained 
for different objectives. This enables us to test which of 
these known NLP objectives and implementations are best 
suited to be used by CoTH to extend the model for malware 
detection.
To evaluate the performance of the CoTH architecture, 
we trained a model for each base LLM for a maximum of 
100 epochs, utilising early stopping with a patience of 5 
epochs. Training is halted when performance stagnates, indi-
cating that further training may lead to overfitting or neg -
ligible improvements. We then calculate precision, recall, 
F1 score and Matthew Correlation Coefficient (MCC) for 
each model in each prediction mode: majority vote, highest 
unstandardised score and highest standardised scores.
We employed a split Learning Rate (LR) to improve the 
selected models further. This allowed us to use a small LR 
for the base LLM, which only requires minor adjustments, 
and a more aggressive LR for the fully connected layers, 
which might need more extensive adjustments since it does 
not already “know” the data. We chose for the base LLM 
maintained a LR of 2e-5 as previously suggested [ 48] to 
overcome the catastrophic forgetting problem and tried 
multiple values for the CoTH specific fully connected lay -
ers to find the best one. After several trials, we chose a LR 
of 1e-2 for the fully connected layers.
Based on the language, we split the results into multilin-
gual (see Table 4) and English (see Table 5), depending on 
the data used to train the models.
Focusing on the multilingual setting, the Highest Unstan-
dardised (HU) strategy consistently yields the best recall 
as well as competitive F1 and MCC values, particularly 
for Twitter-RoBERTa XLM, suggesting that it mitigates 
the impact of differences in base model quality. While the 
Majority and Highest Standardised (HS) strategies occa -
sionally produce slightly higher precision, this often comes 
at the cost of reduced recall, especially for BERT. The fact 
that HU achieves the highest MCC reinforces its advantage, 
as this metric accounts for class balance and indicates over-
all robustness rather than improvements in a single dimen -
sion. Note that recall remains the most relevant metric for 
our task, as commonly preferred in malware analysis and 
health-related research [40].
For completeness, we include the confusion matrices of 
these two models in Figs. 4 and 5, where we can corrobo -
rate that the main effect of the voting system is to shift the 
could also have been used. The translation is optimised to 
exclude non-word comments and truncate comments lon -
ger than 5,000 characters to comply with Google Translates 
API. Note that we therefore have two dataset ore reviews, 
one entirely in English, and the other one with the original 
content of the reviews.
To ensure a manageable size and proper balance of our 
dataset, we adopted a unified approach to resample and 
reduce the dataset size driven by some empirical analysis 
of the dataset. In particular, to accomplish this, we imple -
mented a single method that achieves both resampling and 
size reduction. First, we randomly removed extensions, pri-
marily choosing benign extensions to undersampling the 
data given the low entropy that they add to the model. Sec -
ond, we limited the number of reviews per extension to the 
100 most recent ones. Note that such a number is derived 
from the statistical analysis performed in Fig. 1 and ensures 
that most of the comments of the extensions are used.
The final reduced dataset contains over 15,000 reviews 
from 1,355 extensions, where 407 are for testing and 948 
for training. Although this dataset represents a significant 
size reduction compared to the original dataset it preserves 
the essential characteristics of the data. Also, this reduced 
dataset provides a more manageable and diverse foundation 
for developing and evaluating our Proof of Concept (PoC) 
models.
4.6.1 Reliability
The initial phase of our methodology involved using three 
models from Huggingface Hub, a public repository of ML 
models. Each model had been pre-trained by its creator to 
classify online reviews as real or computer-generated by 
fine-tuning different LLM. We used the models in a collec-
tive decision-making process whereby each model contrib -
uted to determining a reliability score for individual users 
by voting. The three voting systems are a majority vote, the 
highest unstandardised value, and the highest standardised 
value. Note that for all the experiments presented in this sec-
tion, we split the dataset into 70% and 30% for the training 
and the testing dataset.
4.6.2 Models
We initially deployed CoTH using seven pre-trained LLM, 
two trained on multiple language texts: 
i) Twitter-RoBERTa XLM [54];
ii) BERT base multilingual uncase [12].
And five on just English texts: 
1 3
    8  Page 8 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
4.6.3 Validity
We performed an ablation study to compare the impact of 
the individual components on the final performance of the 
CoTH framework. However, due to the architecture, some 
components are impossible to remove on their own or at 
all, i.e., the reliability scores and fully connected layers can-
not be removed independently of each other, and the vot -
ing component cannot be removed at all as it changes the 
structure of the final output. Therefore, our ablation study 
includes three modes (see Table 6). “FC-only”, wherein the 
base LLM is omitted and CoTH is simply a neural network 
operating on the calculated reliability scores. “LLM-only”, 
where the fully connected layers and, therefore, the reliabil-
ity scores are omitted—this is equivalent to simply fine-tun-
ing the base LLM. Lastly, the default mode, CoTH using the 
multilanguage pretrained models trained with the original 
reviews—without translation.
When comparing the different approaches, we observe 
that using CoTH consistently improves recall and MCC 
compared to using the LLM alone, while slightly reducing 
precision. Interestingly, CoTH also reduces the performance 
gap between the underlying models: both achieve similar F1 
and MCC values when combined with CoTH, whereas their 
performance varies more when used in isolation. In con -
trast, the FC-only approach performs substantially worse 
across all metrics, highlighting the importance of leveraging 
pretrained LLM. The takeaway of this ablation study is that 
applying CoTH makes the choice of base model less critical 
while yielding more stable and robust performance.
5 Related work
This section reviews the current state of the art in malware 
analysis using users’ comments in public repositories. In 
particular, we start analysing the most important techniques 
to detect fake reviews and how metadata and users’ com -
ments are used to detect malware.
5.1 Fake reviews
Fake or malicious reviews are not new [ 32]. However, 
ongoing research endeavours continue to try and tackle the 
challenge of effectively addressing these harmful practices. 
These efforts persist due to the adaptive nature of malicious 
actors. Whether or not they are human or automated, they 
will continually try to innovate new techniques to circum -
vent detection mechanisms. Recent advancements in ML 
have provided promising avenues for discerning the authen-
ticity of reviews without direct human intervention.
balance between precision and recall rather than dramati -
cally change overall accuracy.
Regarding the English version, in Table 5 we can see that 
no single voting strategy consistently maximises all met -
rics for all models. For instance, HU usually achieves the 
highest recall for several models (e.g., Twitter-RoBERTa 
XLM, bert-base-multilingual-uncased, OTIS-Official-Span-
Model, and both BERT-base-uncased and DistilBERT-
base-uncased). In contrast, HS and Majority often improve 
precision, F1, or MCC scores in other cases.
Notably, multilingual models like Twitter-RoBERTa 
XLM and BERT-base-multilingual-uncased generally 
achieve higher recall and MCC than the monolingual or 
task-specific models, indicating that leveraging multilingual 
pre-training can improve overall robustness. These results 
align with the previous experiment using original reviews 
and indicate that the multilingual models usually outper -
form the monolingual ones and that there is no need to trans-
late reviews to achieve high recall scores.
Table 4 Scores by model and configuration using split LR trained on 
multilingual reviews. HU denotes Highest Unstandardised and HS 
denotes Highest Standardised
Metric Base Pre-
trained 
Model
V oting System
Highest 
Unstandardised
Highest 
Standardised
Major-
ity
Precision Twitter-
RoBERTa 
XLM
0.480 0.485 0.485
bert-base-
multi-
lingual-
uncased
0.590 0.476 0.614
Recall Twitter-
RoBERTa 
XLM
0.724 0.710 0.710
bert-base-
multi-
lingual-
uncased
0.565 0.449 0.507
F1
Twitter-
RoBERTa 
XLM
0.578 0.576 0.576
bert-base-
multi-
lingual-
uncased
0.577 0.462 0.555
MCC Twitter-
RoBERTa 
XLM
0.485 0.483 0.483
bert-base-
multi-
lingual-
uncased
0.494 0.357 0.478
1 3
Page 9 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
them reached an agreeable accuracy based on these features 
alone.
More recent studies [ 5, 15, 16, 20, 33] systematically 
compare the performance of multiple ML models, including 
Random Forest, Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Mul-
tilayer Perceptron (MLP), demonstrating their performance 
across different datasets. These ML models have a broad 
range of applicability to accommodate diverse contexts, 
such as film critiques [16], restaurant, hotel, or other e-com-
mence reviews [5, 15, 20], or browser extensions [33].
Like the techniques used in CoTH, authors analysed 
users’ reviews, such as detecting fake comments using mul-
tiple NLP models and their ability to classify user-generated 
reviews as real or fake [ 14]. The models evaluated include 
Logistic Regression , Naive Bayes , K-Nearest Neighbour , 
Support Vector Machine and Random Forest. The authors 
show that all tested models could successfully classify a 
customer review as real or fake with high accuracy using 
both bi- and tri-gram versions of the models. This is highly 
relevant to our setting as users might generate fake reviews 
to boost the popularity of their extension to garner more 
downloads propagating their malware [33].
As an example, to find malicious reviews, authors used 
a supervised learning algorithm to classify comments into 
authentic and fake [ 8]. The authors scored each review on 
understandability, level of details, writing style, and cogni-
tion indicators. Then, they used these scores as features for 
many machine learning models to find a classifier to dis -
tinguish real and fake reviews. They showed that most of 
Table 6 Ablation study focusing on individual reviews. “FC-only”, 
where the base LLM is omitted and CoTH is simply a neural network; 
“LLM-only”, where the fully connected layers and, therefore, the reli-
ability scores are omitted—this is equivalent to simply fine-tuning the 
base LLM, and; CoTH using the Highest Unstandardised voting sys -
tem. This experiment we use original reviews, i.e., multilingual models
Pre-trained Model Precision Recall F1
MCC
FC-only N/A 0.548 0.249 0.343 0.137
LLM-only Twitter-RoBERTa 
XLM
0.625 0.611 0.618 0.337
bert-base-multilin-
gual-uncased
0.670 0.492 0.567 0.330
CoTH Twitter-RoBERTa 
XLM
0.480 0.724 0.578 0.485
bert-base-multilin-
gual-uncased
0.590 0.565 0.577 0.494
Metric Base Pre-trained Model V oting System
Prediction Highest Unstandardised Highest Standardised Majority
Precision Twitter-RoBERTa XLM 0.367 0.524 0.360
bert-base-multilingual-uncased 0.586 0.552 0.576
Twitter-RoBERTa Sentiment 0.448 0.444 0.454
OTIS-Official-Spam-Model 0.380 0.358 0.346
bert-finetuned-phishing 0.478 0.466 0.45
bert-base-uncased 0.452 0.403 0.487
distilbert-base-uncased 0.437 0.404 0.464
Recall Twitter-RoBERTa XLM 0.763 0.697 0.75
bert-base-multilingual-uncased 0.578 0.486 0.447
Twitter-RoBERTa Sentiment 0.26 0.32 0.2
OTIS-Official-Spam-Model 0.48 0.38 0.34
bert-finetuned-phishing 0.22 0.28 0.18
bert-base-uncased 0.756 0.609 0.695
distilbert-base-uncased 0.768 0.670 0.707
F1
Twitter-RoBERTa XLM 0.495 0.598 0.487
bert-base-multilingual-uncased 0.582 0.517 0.503
Twitter-RoBERTa Sentiment 0.329 0.372 0.277
OTIS-Official-Spam-Model 0.424 0.368 0.343
bert-finetuned-phishing 0.301 0.35 0.257
bert-base-uncased 0.566 0.485 0.572
distilbert-base-uncased 0.557 0.504 0.560
MCC Twitter-RoBERTa XLM 0.368 0.498 0.355
bert-base-multilingual-uncased 0.487 0.416 0.411
Twitter-RoBERTa Sentiment 0.223 0.249 0.196
OTIS-Official-Spam-Model 0.260 0.203 0.179
bert-finetuned-phishing 0.220 0.245 0.183
bert-base-uncased 0.445 0.332 0.452
distilbert-base-uncased 0.435 0.358 0.435
Table 5 Score by model and 
mode with split LR using English 
reviews. HU stands for Highest 
Unstandardised and HS for High-
est Standardised
 
1 3
    8  Page 10 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
description among other things. In contrast, we just used the 
public comments written by users in the CWS.
5.3 Malicious browser extensions
Whilst previous work on the detection of malicious browser 
extensions in Chrome is abundant [ 2, 14, 23, 25, 39], most 
methods implement either static analysis (analysing their 
source code), dynamic analysis (analysing the behaviour in 
real-time), or a combination of both (hybrid analysis).
Recently, authors analysed extensions’ downloads [ 39] 
and related it to malicious extensions. By clustering the 
downloads over time, the authors classified clusters as mali-
cious or benign if the fraction of known malicious exten -
sions in that cluster is above some threshold. The second 
classifier aims to classify each extension directly based on 
the downloads time series. The authors show that both clas-
sifiers can successfully identify whether a given extension is 
malicious or benign with great accuracy, proving that analy-
sis of an extension’s metadata is a viable approach for find-
ing malicious browser extensions. Instead, in this paper we 
analyse users’ comments to identify malicious extensions 
and achieve a recall of 0.75, which is almost the same as the 
authors achieved by clustering downloads patterns (0.80). 
Rather than a simple and direct comparison of two differ -
ent methods, we strongly think that the combination of both 
will definitely increase the malware detection ability.
5.4 Baselines
Although malware detection from user reviews has, to our 
knowledge, not been done with Deep Learning (DL) previ -
ously. Some attempts were done with more traditional ML 
methods like Logistic Regression and Random Forest [ 21, 
22]. These studies utilised a DomainCorpus sourced from 
the security domain and a random subset of Android APKs 
from Amazon’s Android, though specifics about the data -
set were not disclosed. Unfortunately, these datasets are 
not publicly accessible, preventing us from reproducing the 
same results or even training CoTH on their data.
To ensure the fairest possible comparison we imple -
mented the baseline models ourselves and trained them 
using the same datasets as CoTH and used the training set 
to generate the feature extraction functions. As the original 
authors leave some room for interpretation this results in 
three new models we can use to compare CoTH with exist-
ing methods. The first model [ 22], uses two features based 
on review content, number of reviews and number of users. 
The second and third models [21], use an additional feature 
based on the number of reviews and application age where 
the interpretation of age is the differentiating factor between 
the two. We used random forests since authors demonstrated 
5.2 Fake reviews for malware detection
The use of user reviews specifically for malware detection is 
far less common [21, 22, 27, 37, 41] and focuses mainly on 
applying ML or statistical methods to specific types of user 
reviews to perform their classification. Specifically, these 
approaches use only reviews associated with a sufficiently 
low rating and containing specific keywords as specified 
by the authors [ 21, 22, 27, 37]. The motivation behind this 
approach is stated almost unanimously to be that users will 
detect malicious behaviour and leave poor reviews. They do 
not take into account malicious actors that try to inflate their 
perceived popularity artificially [33].
Considering the complete set of reviews is also familiar 
since [41] uses multiple modules to extract features from the 
available metadata; of these modules, two use reviews. One 
module uses the review content and rating to filter out fraud-
ulent reviews and then uses specific keywords to generate its 
features. The second module forgoes NLP entirely. Instead, 
it focuses on which users are likelier to leave reviews on the 
same applications in the same time frame. It aims to iden -
tify crowdsourcing of fraudulent reviews to boost apparent 
popularity and help proliferate malware artificially.
The vast majority of analysis focuses on application per-
missions [1, 3, 4, 26, 43, 49, 57] and achieves respectable 
performance even though the difference in permissions for 
malicious and benign apps is minimal [ 43]. It is also com -
mon to analyse other metadata left by developers such as 
their name [3], application description and categories [3, 26, 
49], and update frequency [ 3, 49]. Some papers also make 
use of user-submitted data such as the average score, usually 
on a scale of 1 to 5 [3, 13, 49].
ADROIT [ 30] is a method closer to CoTH, where the 
authors present a method for detecting malware in an 
Android application store based solely on metadata sup -
plied by that store. Using textual, categorical and numeri -
cal features extracted from each application’s store page 
and manifest, the authors can train a model able to identify 
malicious apps with a 93.67% accuracy. Furthermore, the 
authors suggest that their method “can easily be extended to 
any app market, including iOS and Windows markets, due 
to the independence from the application software”.
The most important differences between ADROIT and 
CoTH are in the dataset and the amount of processed infor-
mation. In ADROIT, the dataset had almost 40% of malware 
samples whereas we only have 0.49%. Regarding the infor-
mation they used for the model, apart from the manifest file 
of the Android apps, they also processed metadata like the 
minimum SDK, the minimum size of the screen and the 
supported CPU types, identification of the developers, the 
organisation, the locality and the country, the rating score 
given by the users, or the number of users who voted and a 
1 3
Page 11 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
6 Conclusions
In this paper, we have thoroughly analysed comments left 
on both malicious and benign browser extensions. We have 
performed an exploratory analysis using TF-IDF, and com-
puting the POS tags of the reviews to later cluster them using 
HDBSCAN. By doing so, we showed that user reviews left 
on browser extension store pages do exhibit some weak 
patterns.
While patterns themselves do not necessarily imply any-
thing about the extensions they are left on, our analysis has 
further shown that these patterns clearly distinguish com -
ments left on benign and malicious extensions from each 
other. This further justifies our investigation into applying 
NLP and DL techniques to classify browser extensions 
based on their reviews.
Based on these insights, we proposed CoTH, a novel 
framework to detect malicious browser extensions by ana -
lysing user comments from the Chrome Web Store, a CFRS 
system. CoTH leverages a combination of pre-trained LLM, 
traditional neural networks and voting systems to achieve this 
task. Our experiments demonstrate that the Highest Unstan-
dardised voting strategy consistently maximises recall while 
maintaining competitive F1 and MCC scores, particularly 
for multilingual models such as Twitter-RoBERTa XLM 
and BERT-base-multilingual-uncased. These models out -
perform monolingual and task-specific models, showing 
that multilingual pre-training significantly improves robust-
ness without requiring translation of reviews.
CoTH effectively identifies malicious extensions using 
only user comments. While our study focuses on reviews 
from the CWS within a limited timeframe, our results con -
firm that user-generated content can serve as a reliable 
signal for malware detection, highlighting the potential of 
combining advanced language models with strategic voting 
mechanisms for security tasks in online marketplaces like 
the Chrome Web Store.
it was the best model [ 21]. To further ensure a fair com -
parison, the Random Forest (RF) models are re-trained 100 
times and their performance averaged to mitigate the impact 
of large performance differences brought on by their ran -
dom nature.
We can see how CoTH and the baselines, apart from the 
Logistic Regression model, perform comparably in terms of 
all-round metrics such as F1 and MCC (see Table 7). On the 
other hand, the baselines and CoTH seem to be opposites in 
terms of precision and recall, this is likely due to the authors 
of the baseline prioritising overall accuracy instead of nar -
rower metrics. Due to this discrepancy in preferred metric 
it is difficult to properly compare the models at a metric-by-
metric level.
However, we can still see that CoTH performs compa -
rably to previous work although with a shifted priority of 
metrics, i.e., prioritising those for malware detection [ 40]. 
CoTH’s strength lies in its high recall and overall balance in 
performance, as evidenced by its F1-Score and MCC (see 
Table 7). Although the precision and False Positive Rate 
(FPR) could be improved, the model captures a greater and 
more reliable number of malicious extensions than the base-
line models, making it a better overall choice in malware 
detection.
While CoTH has a higher FPR (0.159) compared to Ran-
dom Forest A (0.0680) and B (0.0923), this is offset by its 
significantly higher recall. Note that a higher recall may 
come with a slight increase in false positives, but this trade-
off is acceptable depending on the application, particularly 
if identifying true positives is a priority like in malware 
detection.
Note that, although the results might seem the same, 
there is an important difference: reproducibility [18]. In our 
proposal, we do not require any private dataset to train the 
model with. CoTH uses public reviews from the Web Store 
to get similar F1-score than previous works but better recall, 
i.e., reducing the amount of false alarms and therefore the 
need of manually analysing browser extensions that are 
indeed benign.
Table 7 Comparison of CoTH and baseline performance. LoRe stands 
for Logistic Regression, whereas RF for Random Forest
Precision Recall F1
MCC FPR
LoRe 0.283 0.294 0.288 −0.060 0.355
RF A 0.748 0.421 0.539 0.429 0.068
RF B 0.708 0.469 0.564 0.429 0.092
CoTH 0.480 0.724 0.578 0.485 0.159
1 3
    8  Page 12 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright 
holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit  h t t p  : / /  c r e a  t i  v e c  o m m o  n s .  o 
r g  / l i c e n s e s / b y / 4 . 0 /.
References
1. Abdulla, S., Altaher, A.: Intelligent approach for android malware 
detection. KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems 
(TIIS) 9(8), 2964–2983 (2015)
2. Aggarwal, A., Viswanath, B., Zhang, L., Kumar, S., Shah, A., 
Kumaraguru, P.: I spy with my little eye: Analysis and detection 
of spying browser extensions. In: Euro S &P (2018)
3. Akhuseyinoglu, N.B., Akhuseyinoglu, K.: Antiware: An auto -
mated android malware detection tool based on machine learning 
approach and official market metadata. In: UEMCON, pp. 1–7. 
IEEE (2016)
4. Almin, S.B., Chatterjee, M.: A novel approach to detect android 
malware. Procedia Computer Science 45, 407–417 (2015)
5. Alsubari, S.N., Deshmukh, S.N., Alqarni, A.A., Alsharif, N., Ald-
hyani, T., Alsaade, F.W., Khalaf, O.I.: Data analytics for the iden-
tification of fake reviews using supervised learning. Computers, 
Materials & Continua 70(2), 3189–3204 (2022)
6. Anderson, B., Quist, D., Neil, J., Storlie, C., Lane, T.: Graph-
based malware detection using dynamic analysis. J. Comput. 
Virol. 7, 247–258 (2011)
7. Ars Technica: Hola VPN used to perform DDoS attacks, violate 
user privacy.  h t t p  s : /  / a r s  t e  c h n  i c a .  c o m  / i n  f o r  m a t  i o n -  t e  c h n  o l o g  y / 2  0 
Model performance
See Figs. 4, 5.
Author Contributions All authors contributed equally to the writing 
and revision of the paper
Funding Open access funding provided by Halmstad University.
Data Availability No datasets were generated or analysed during the 
current study.
Declarations
Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of 
interest.
Open Access   This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, 
adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, 
as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the 
source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate 
if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless 
indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not 
included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended 
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted 
Fig. 5 Confusion matrices for BERT-base-multilingual model with split LR
 
Fig. 4 Confusion matrices for Twitter-RoBERTa XLM model with split LR
 
1 3
Page 13 of 15     8 
A. Flemark et al.
29. Maimon, O., Rokach, L.: Ensemble Methods for Classifiers, pp. 
957–980. Springer US, Boston, MA (2005)
30. Martín, A., Calleja, A., Menéndez, H.D., Tapiador, J., Camacho, 
D.: ADROIT: Android malware detection using meta-informa -
tion. In: SSCI, pp. 1–8. IEEE (2016)
31. Moreno, J.M., Vallina-Rodriguez, N., Tapiador, J.: Did i vet you 
before? assessing the chrome web store vetting process through 
browser extension similarity. arXiv:2406.00374 (2024)
32. Mukherjee, A., Liu, B., Glance, N.: Spotting fake reviewer groups 
in consumer reviews. In: The Web Conference, p. 191–200 (2012)
33. Olsson, E., Eriksson, B., Andersson, L., Picazo-Sanchez, P., 
Sabelfeld, A.: Fakex: A framework for detecting fake reviews of 
browser extensions. In: Asia CCS, p. 769–784 (2024)
34. Or-Meir, O., Nissim, N., Elovici, Y ., Rokach, L.: Dynamic mal-
ware analysis in the modern era-a state of the art survey. ACM 
Computing Surveys (CSUR) 52(5), 1–48 (2019)
35. OTIS-Official-Spam-Model: Titeiiko/OTIS-Official-Spam-
Model  Hugging Face.  h t t p  s : /  / h u g  g i  n g f  a c e .  c o /  T i t  e i i  k o /  O T I S  - O  
ffi    c i a l - S p a m - M o d e l (2024)
36. Pan, Y ., Ge, X., Fang, C., Fan, Y .: A systematic literature review 
of android malware detection using static analysis. IEEE Access 
8, 116363–116379 (2020)
37. Pantelaios, N., Nikiforakis, N., Kapravelos, A.: You’ve changed: 
Detecting malicious browser extensions through their update del-
tas. In: CCS, p. 477–491 (2020)
38. de Paula, A.F.M., da Silva, R.F., Schlicht, I.B.: Sexism prediction 
in spanish and english tweets using monolingual and multilingual 
bert and ensemble models. arXiv:2111.04551 (2021)
39. Picazo-Sanchez, P., Eriksson, B., Sabelfeld, A.: No signal left to 
chance: Driving browser extension analysis by download pat -
terns. In: ACSAC, pp. 896–910 (2022)
40. Powers, D.: Evaluation: From precision, recall and f-measure to 
roc, informedness, markedness & correlation. J. Mach. Learn. 
Technol. 2(1), 37–63 (2011)
41. Rahman, M., Rahman, M., Carbunar, B., Chau, D.H.: Search rank 
fraud and malware detection in google play. IEEE Trans. Knowl. 
Data Eng. 29(6), 1329–1342 (2017)
42. Sanh, V ., Debut, L., Chaumond, J., Wolf, T.: Distilbert, a dis -
tilled version of bert: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter. 
arXiv:1910.01108 (2019)
43. Sanz, B., Santos, I., Laorden, C., Ugarte-Pedrero, X., Bringas, 
P.G., Álvarez, G.: Puma: Permission usage to detect malware in 
android. In: CISIS, pp. 289–298. Springer (2013)
44. Schmidt, A.D., Bye, R., Schmidt, H.G., Clausen, J., Kiraz, O., 
Yuksel, K.A., Camtepe, S.A., Albayrak, S.: Static analysis of 
executables for collaborative malware detection on android. In: 
ICC, pp. 1–5. IEEE (2009)
45. Shijo, P., Salim, A.: Integrated static and dynamic analysis for 
malware detection. Procedia Computer Science 46, 804–811 
(2015)
46. Spring, T.: Copyfish Browser Extension Hijacked to Spew Spam. 
Threatpost (2017).  h t t p  s : /  / t h r  e a  t p o  s t . c  o m /  c o p  y fi   s h -  b r o w  s e  r - e  x t e n  
s i o  n - h  i j a  c k e  d - t o  - s  p e w - s p a m / 1 2 7 1 2 5. [Accessed: 06-12-2023]
47. Statcounter Global Stats: Browser Market Share Worldwide  
Statcounter Global Stats.  h t t p  s : /  / g s .  s t  a t c  o u n t  e r .  c o m  / b r  o w s  e r - m  a 
r  k e t - s h a r e (2023)
48. Sun, C., Qiu, X., Xu, Y ., Huang, X.: How to fine-tune bert for text 
classification? In: CCL, pp. 194–206. Springer (2019)
49. Teufl, P., Ferk, M., Fitzek, A., Hein, D., Kraxberger, S., Orthacker, 
C.: Malware detection by applying knowledge discovery pro -
cesses to application metadata on the android market (google 
play). Security and communication networks 9(5), 389–419 
(2016)
50. Thangavelooa, R., Jinga, W.W., Lenga, C.K., Abdullaha, J.: Dat-
droid: Dynamic analysis technique in android malware detection. 
1 5  / 0 6  / h o  l a - v  p n  - u s  e d - t  o - p  e r f  o r m  - d d  o s - a  t t  a c k s - v i o l a t e - u s e r - p r i v a 
c y (2020)
8. Banerjee, S., Chua, A.Y ., Kim, J.J.: Using supervised learning to 
classify authentic and fake online reviews. In: IMCOM, pp. 1–7 
(2015)
9. Beddiar, D.R., Jahan, M.S., Oussalah, M.: Data expansion using 
back translation and paraphrasing for hate speech detection. 
Online Social Networks and Media 24, 100153 (2021)
10. BERT-finetuned-phishing: ealvaradob/bert-finetuned-phishing  
Hugging Face.  h t t p  s : /  / h u g  g i  n g f  a c e .  c o /  e a l  v a r  a d o  b / b e  r t  - fi  n e t u n e 
d - p h i s h i n g (2024)
11. Chawla, N.V ., Bowyer, K.W., Hall, L.O., Kegelmeyer, W.P.: 
Smote: synthetic minority over-sampling technique. Journal of 
artificial intelligence research 16, 321–357 (2002)
12. Devlin, J., Chang, M.W., Lee, K., Toutanova, K.: Bert: Pre-train-
ing of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding 
pp. 4171–4186 (2019)
13. Duque, J., Mendes, G., Nunes, L., de Almeida, A., Serrão, C.: 
Automated android malware detection using user feedback. Sen -
sors 22(17), 6561 (2022)
14. Elmogy, A.M., Tariq, U., Ammar, M., Ibrahim, A.: Fake reviews 
detection using supervised machine learning. International 
Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications 12(1) 
(2021)
15. Elmogy, A.M., Tariq, U., Mohammed, A., Ibrahim, A.: Fake 
reviews detection using supervised machine learning. Interna -
tional Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications 
(2021)
16. Elmurngi, E., Gherbi, A.: Detecting fake reviews through sen -
timent analysis using machine learning techniques. In: IARIA/
Data Analytics (2017)
17. Eriksson, B., Picazo-Sanchez, P., Sabelfeld, A.: Hardening the 
security analysis of browser extensions. In: Proceedings of the 
37th ACM/SIGAPP Symposium on Applied Computing, SAC 
’22, p. 1694–1703. Association for Computing Machinery, New 
York, NY , USA (2022)
18. Flemark, A., Paulander, A., Picazo-Sanchez, P.: From comments 
to threats: Leveraging nlp to detect malicious browser extensions 
(2025).  h t t p  s : /  / d o i  . o  r g /  1 0 . 5  2 8 1  / z e  n o d o . 1 7 1 0 5 3 2 9
19. How are items ranked in the store?  h t t p  s : /  / d e v  e l  o p e  r . c h  r o m  e . c  o m 
/  d o c  s / w e  b s  t o r e / f a q / # f a q - g e n - 2 4 (2024)
20. Gutierrez-Espinoza, L., Abri, F., Namin, A.S., Jones, K.S., Sears, 
D.R.W.: Fake reviews detection through ensemble learning 
(2020)
21. Hadad, T., Puzis, R., Sidik, B., Ofek, N., Rokach, L.: Applica -
tion marketplace malware detection by user feedback analysis. In: 
ICISSP, pp. 1–19. Springer (2018)
22. Hadad, T., Sidik, B., Ofek, N., Puzis, R., Rokach, L.: User feed -
back analysis for mobile malware detection. In: ICISSP, vol. 2, 
pp. 83–94. SciTePress (2017)
23. Jagpal, N., Dingle, E., Gravel, J., Mavrommatis, P., Provos, N., 
Rajab, M., Thomas, K.: Trends and lessons from three years fight-
ing malicious extensions. In: USENIX (2015)
24. Japkowicz, N., Stephen, S.: The class imbalance problem: A sys-
tematic study1. Intelligent data analysis. 6(5) (2002-11-15)
25. Kapravelos, A., Grier, C., Chachra, N., Kruegel, C., Vigna, G., 
Paxson, V .: Hulk: Eliciting malicious behavior in browser exten-
sions. In: USENIX (2014)
26. Lemos, R., Heinrich, T., Maziero, C.A., Will, N.C.: Is it safe? 
identifying malicious apps through the use of metadata and inter-
process communication. In: SysCon, pp. 1–8. IEEE (2022)
27. Li, S., Kumar, S., Dumitras, T., Subrahmanian, V .S.: Breaking 
Bad: Forecasting Adversarial Android Bad Behavior, pp. 405–
431. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2018)
28. Livshits, C.C.B., Zorn, B., Seifert, C.: Zozzle: Low-overhead 
mostly static javascript malware detection. In: USENIX (2010)
1 3
    8  Page 14 of 15
From comments to threats: leveraging NLP to detect malicious browser extensions
58. Wang, Y ., Cai, W., Lyu, P., Shao, W., et al.: A combined static and 
dynamic analysis approach to detect malicious browser exten -
sions. Security and Communication Networks 2018 (2018)
59. Wilson, D.L.: Asymptotic properties of nearest neighbor rules 
using edited data. IEEE Trans. Syst. Man Cybern. SMC–2(3), 
408–421 (1972)
60. Xing, X., Meng, W., Lee, B., Weinsberg, U., Sheth, A., Perdisci, 
R., Lee, W.: Understanding malvertising through ad-injecting 
browser extensions. In: The Web Conference, p. 1286–1295 
(2015)
61. Xue, L., Zhu, T.: Hybrid resampling and weighted majority vot -
ing for multi-class anomaly detection on imbalanced malware 
and network traffic data. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 128, 107568 
(2024)
62. Zimperium: The Case of Cloud9 Chrome Botnet - Zimperium.  h t 
t p  s : /  / w w w  . z  i m p  e r i u  m . c  o m /  b l o  g / t  h e - c  a s  e - o  f - c l  o u d  9 - c  h r o m e - b o t n 
e t (2022)
Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris-
dictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
International Journal on Advanced Science, Engineering and 
Information Technology 10(2), 536–541 (2020)
51. Titterington, A.: Dozens of malicious extensions for Google 
Chrome.  h t t p  s : /  / w w w  . k  a s p  e r s k  y . c  o m /  b l o  g / d  a n g e  r o  u s -  c h r o  m e -  e x 
t  e n s  i o n  s - 8 7  - m  i l l i o n / 4 8 5 6 2 / (2023)
52. Tomek, I.: Two modifications of cnn. IEEE Trans. Syst. Man 
Cybern. SMC–6(11), 769–772 (1976)
53. twitter-roberta-base-sentiment-latest: cardiffnlp/twitter-roberta-
base-sentiment-latest  Hugging Face.  h t t p  s : /  / h u g  g i  n g f  a c e .  c o /  c a 
r  d i ff   n l  p / t w  i t  t e r  - r o b  e r t  a - b  a s e - s e n t i m e n t - l a t e s t (2024)
54. twitter-xlm-roberta-base-sentiment: cardiffnlp/twitter-xlm-
roberta-base-sentiment  Hugging Face (2024)
55. Varshney, G., Bagade, S., Sinha, S.: Malicious browser exten -
sions: A growing threat: A case study on google chrome: Ongoing 
work in progress. In: ICOIN, pp. 188–193. IEEE (2018)
56. Wang, J., Xue, Y ., Liu, Y ., Tan, T.H.: JSDC: A Hybrid Approach 
for JavaScript Malware Detection and Classification. In: Asi -
aCCS, p. 109–120 (2015)
57. Wang, K., Song, T., Liang, A.: Mmda: Metadata based malware 
detection on android. In: CIS, pp. 598–602. IEEE (2016)
1 3
Page 15 of 15     8 
